Gwenevere Abriel: Stena hair. Oh, 7am
Individual therapy.
yearn for
Gwenevere Abriel: Hi, good morning.
Christina Haro a: Good morning.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Right. Nearly you got your coffee handy.
Christina Haro a: I got my coffee. I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Good. Excellent. So I saw you already checked it. Thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright so today we are going to do a little review of how you're doing with your goals and I just started to look at them and then I logged in with you. So let's take a look at
Gwenevere Abriel: First one, which you've identified as wanting a job. I know that that care position fell through. And I know you've been busy putting in applications. Are you feeling optimistic discouraged you noticing something's getting in the way.
Christina Haro a: Nor I feel feeling really optimistic. Actually, I have a, I have an interview this week. Well, totally different kinds of dub, but it's somewhere where my son works and going to try to get me in at a hotel, so I'm
Christina Haro a: I think of my pen out so
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, and what's the position for
Christina Haro a: I'm it's housekeeping while it's not really housekeeping room attendant slash housekeeping. Okay, which would keep me busy and
Christina Haro a: Helped me with exercise a little bit more. So that would be good.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, you'd be moving around. Yeah, okay, and
Gwenevere Abriel: Has your son told you anything that you might have concerns about as far as the ethics or the behaviors of bosses and things like that that we can get ahead.
Christina Haro a: Actually, he says mom would be really good for you. He says, because why work. It's a really nice when he works in a really nice out
Christina Haro a: Get hotel, a really expensive hotel here in Albuquerque. When is the most expensive hotel. So he says, it's really quiet the buses are really till he says, I think the atmosphere would be really good for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I love hearing that. Okay. Excellent. And let's see.
Gwenevere Abriel: The topic of spirituality and religion supporting the recovery process. That's a big. It's a big topic, most people go through waves of connection with their spirituality
Gwenevere Abriel: When they're in their active addiction. They've sort of pulled away from it.
Gwenevere Abriel: You had mentioned on the 10th of February. I go to church on Sundays. I do pray and talk to God.
Gwenevere Abriel: I asked God to help me and you have a private private moment with him and that your mom had raised Catholic
Gwenevere Abriel: But, see if you can zero in a little bit further into the connection between your relationship with with God and recovery. See if you can hold those two things, see what those are for you. These days, how spirituality could help you maintain support your long term recovery goals.
Christina Haro a: Well, I, you know, let's we're talking this last boo, you know, I'm I kind of pulled away a lot from you know
Christina Haro a: Anything regarding a religious religious and spiritual stuff I did for a while, you know, when I was at my worst and then slowly. I started kind of
Christina Haro a: You know, pulling myself back into it and lately. I think I've been doing okay to where I go to church. Once in a while, more than what I did before. Okay, so I've kind of been, you know, a little more
Christina Haro a: You know a little bit more open to
Gwenevere Abriel: It. So Christina.
Gwenevere Abriel: It is
Gwenevere Abriel: That is general you're going the kind of question I'm asking you is is a, it's a deeply personal one. It has to do with how it helps support recovery and and this you might not be there yet. And that might be what I'm running into
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, just going, I could go to
Gwenevere Abriel: And don't mean anything.
Gwenevere Abriel: But for you. What's the missing piece. What's missing between the connection between your spirituality and looking ahead, or even today, drawing the connection between
Gwenevere Abriel: Spirituality and faith God. However, you think about it, right, of using some of your wording.
Gwenevere Abriel: And your ability
Gwenevere Abriel: To maintain sobriety.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are you doing actively. You know what I'm trying to get at.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't wanna
Christina Haro a: I wanna, I think.
Christina Haro a: I think you're right. I'm probably not there yet.
Christina Haro a: Okay, the point to where I actually feel like okay I can actually, you know, I probably not. Okay. I'm not there yet.
Christina Haro a: Okay, I wish I was there a little bit more than what I should be. But I'm not going to say, Yeah, I am, because
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's finish that sentence because there's a couple of fragmented sentences.
Gwenevere Abriel: Where I can actually see if you can finish that you identified of something might be missing. So see if you can identify the rest of that sense. I'm not there yet. When where I can actually what
Christina Haro a: Why can I leave
Christina Haro a: Turn to my faith and actually say, You know, I'm I have guidance, I
Christina Haro a: Know, yeah I don't feel that I don't
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. And so that's probably what I'm picking up on because typically when people are there. It's like they just can't talk enough about, you know, moments and oh yesterday. Oh, this morning, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah I yeah so when you're there, you know, the way the details the stories will be rich in your life. So that's where we're at. Got it. Okay, let's let's keep going.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we're just touching lightly on some goals here.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's very, very personal. You know, this is something that you're going to register. Maybe you'll dip into it a little bit closer. Maybe at other times, you'll be pulling back, but this is this is by no means defined by me, this is, this is your own very, very deeply personal experience.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you identified very early on. I want to feel normal.
Gwenevere Abriel: And work and not depend on drugs. I want to be drug free. So that's the overarching goal when it comes to sort of the MA ti part, you know, checking in with
Gwenevere Abriel: With your physician and how am I doing on my dose and MIT brain. How am I feeling
Gwenevere Abriel: And am I still self, self medicating or am I, kind of, well, you know, my kind of malingering here and hanging onto this low longer than I need to this is this space that's right there. So we're going to touch on it for just a second.
Gwenevere Abriel: Typically, you know, kind of an uncomfortable. One is, people aren't really excited about tapering yet.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you think about tapering not off but down, not the same treatment plan people oftentimes stay at two milligrams point seven five. I've been working with someone who's been at point seven five for quite some time. We continue to do individual therapy.
Gwenevere Abriel: And there's nobody saying much about it because it's such a low dose, you know, and, and she's doing just fine. So there's a difference between a treatment plan that's off.
Gwenevere Abriel: And a treatment plan that's just down. So, for a moment, try on this idea of you're living your life with a low dose of buprenorphine what what comes up for you.
Christina Haro a: Well, to me, um, I, you know, so, because I think about a head, you know, and they think about what's going to happen. And to me, I looked at it, and I'm like, well, hopefully, at that time, you know, I
Christina Haro a: A lot more myself and I can you know I'm not looking forward to, to, okay, is this medicine going to make me feel better. Am I going to feel okay today. I'm hoping that when they get there. I'm like,
Christina Haro a: A lot more normal than I am now.
Christina Haro a: Okay, you know what I mean.
I like to
Gwenevere Abriel: Point out
Christina Haro a: Here I'm just hoping you know things are a lot more
Gwenevere Abriel: So well
Christina Haro a: For me,
Gwenevere Abriel: Well see that North that word normal is going to need a lot more explanation. We're going to come back to it because it's a word you use
Gwenevere Abriel: And I think that's why we're meeting still weekly. So really understand your expectation and see if our work together can get you there. But I got to understand what that means, because normal for you and me probably not the same thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we want your comfort normal or or an exciting normal or calm or whatever it is. Okay, so let's go over to
Gwenevere Abriel: Me just put target.
Are
Gwenevere Abriel: All right.
T. A.
Gwenevere Abriel: And this one here, same goal, but just a different objective you coming to individual therapy, you've actually been really consistent with that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I get the sense that you want to continue at this rate will continue to address underlying issues.
Gwenevere Abriel: So we'll continue at this rate, but at this point.
Gwenevere Abriel: If something happens where you need to cancel. We can do it every other week.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the progress will just get slowed down as all okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's go over here to I want to be happy and not bring my baggage. Now, you went in again to explaining what baggage is and so interesting because there's a little note without word normal in here again you really like that one. He
Gwenevere Abriel: I gotta know what that is. So you touched on February 20
Gwenevere Abriel: It the baggage is referring to
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what you sound like Grandma, I think it's that anger. I think it's that that temper piece that that the baggage you're bringing
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. Okay. Yeah. Alright, have a short fuse.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah okay and over this last week. What have you noticed about that fuse.
Christina Haro a: Actually this last week has been pretty calm, you know, we, I've been busy. You know, we've all been busy. And actually, you know, it says been pretty common here you know that even, even in myself. I've been feeling, feeling pretty good.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you know how you went like this, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Haha Oh, do you remember where you got yeah maybe irritated or angry and you did something different than you normally do. Do you remember doing anything differently.
Christina Haro a: I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: Not really.
Gwenevere Abriel: Doesn't know okay okay okay but you're this, you're going like this and sort of saying
That you have
Christina Haro a: Because what I've noticed, I guess, um, I noticed that when I get angry and my views starts to light and it gets really short.
Christina Haro a: And I could feel it in here you'd like to fill it in my chest. I could fill that I'm getting angry, I said to my heart's pounding my chest in my head. So that's why I tell you, I've been feeling just calm you know hominids happy about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now that could be you tell me, is it because people have been doing what you want them to, or have people been ups doing things where they break the rules they disappoint you, and you're responding differently.
Christina Haro a: I think it is. I'm trying to respond differently. I've been using a lot of the stuff you tell me and I've been trying. I've been trying really hard.
Gwenevere Abriel: So notice, earlier I said, what have you. What are you doing differently. You weren't able to remember. So this time, you're saying I am doing the stuff you're telling me. And so, do you know what you were doing.
Christina Haro a: Um,
Christina Haro a: I think the breathing helps me
The breathing.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're the belly breathing. You're getting that error down in the bottom of the lung.
Christina Haro a: Yes. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Great. And that helps everybody and then you remember the other cool stuff little tricks, maybe just to review.
Gwenevere Abriel: Son, I feel scared, I see you looking like you're going out tonight and I'm getting my chest all tight.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you reassure me where you're going to be. And so I don't have to worry on a really different way of talking right I feel scared it's the I feel remembering that
Christina Haro a: I feel
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a pretty different one for most people, because we're not raised to talk like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Were raised to tell stories. I feel like you don't care about me and you don't never you never going to care and you're so inconsiderate and
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't care. Then I get, you know, I'm going to have a heart attack and I'm gonna love you know love me. And we started tell right we instead of saying, I feel scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: We give stories about what it's like this other person or listener or son can hear what our internal experiences, but using an emotion word is precise and it's irrefutable. It's not up for debate.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I'm showing up irritable and angry, son. But that's not really what's going on inside of me. I'm actually really scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: Different really different way for people to talk or it's it's vulnerable. It's, you know, we're we're putting our little underbelly out there and saying,
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, be gentle with this thing that's precious to me. My fear.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it gives your son a chance to really see how deeply you care about his safety, right. I'm just making up an example, obviously, but I happen to have a little story from you in the past.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so, um, let's go over to same air here. Let's go to app. So one thing that I like to be developing all the time is the relapse prevention plan. So a relapse prevention plan is developed sometimes for years as I'm working with people or months, however long you guys stay here with us.
Gwenevere Abriel: I just started chip away out and I'm always adding a little sentences and little bits. So today, let's put a couple items in it. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want you to think
Gwenevere Abriel: I want you to think back at times when you have what's called self medicated when you have thought
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't. Oh, this is awful. I'm just going to reach for a pill.
Gwenevere Abriel: Or heroin or more Suboxone
Gwenevere Abriel: Or alcohol. Remember, right.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's, there's a category that I have in the relapse prevention area that is called emotional triggers.
Gwenevere Abriel: For you. What is an emotional trigger
Gwenevere Abriel: In the past doesn't have to be yesterday. Just need to keep your eye out have it written down. What's an emotional trigger might be an emotion. It might be something someone does an event a memory. What's an emotional trigger
Christina Haro a: I think to me was when my older daughter was here. I think that was she really poked around me and motion Lee was when she was yelling at me, telling me.
Christina Haro a: When she was here, which was last year, you know, probably summer time I'm yelling at me, telling me that I was a horrible mother. Yeah, that I was like my mom. That's very emotional. That really triggered me. Yep.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now the emotion that you felt was what
Christina Haro a: It was like a
Christina Haro a: Hate anger.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and
Gwenevere Abriel: You were hating who or what what St. Where's the hate
Christina Haro a: Directed I think at the time I was hating her because of the way she talked to me and then I was angry because of, of, I guess, the memory of brought you know when she was telling me that was, she was yelling at me.
Christina Haro a: Okay, I was hating her for the way she talked to me and I was angry at
Christina Haro a: The memories that brought back
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, the memories that brought back
Gwenevere Abriel: Where was the anger directed
Christina Haro a: I guess why my childhood. That's what my anger was directed I was angry at
Christina Haro a: That was angry. You know, all the stuff I went through when I was young.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hundred and underneath that it's very rare that anger sits there alone as a primary emotion, it tends to be the secondary one if underneath anger. When you think of those childhood memories. What's an emotion underneath anger.
Christina Haro a: Hurt. I was hurt. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that the same as sad.
Gwenevere Abriel: You find it.
Christina Haro a: quite sad.
Gwenevere Abriel: How did you feel I know these are hard to get to, because you probably isolated from from feeling these because you go to anger quite a bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: As a way to self preserve and I completely understand it's a very common phenomenon.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you think about that childhood was much of the time just sort of being an angry child, or was it feeling unwanted unloved sad rejected confused scared confused. You know, like you see there's other words we can use here.
Gwenevere Abriel: What are we
Christina Haro a: Getting close to anything. I was more like
Christina Haro a: More like a rejected kind of filling up
Christina Haro a: Yeah, rejected.
Christina Haro a: Rejected last scared, you know,
Christina Haro a: Yeah, it's a mixed with those
Gwenevere Abriel: Hurt rejected scared mixed
Gwenevere Abriel: And then of course those emotions are vulnerable ones, which means
Gwenevere Abriel: I protect it with anger. I won't let people know that's how I'm feeling because they might continue it. I'll show up angry and protect so i don't i don't touch show those pieces.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's very common. But notice how this little example I did with your son.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now that you're an adult and those those memories and slowly over the work that we're doing those memories in the past will stay in the past and they won't be relived in the present.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the kind of connection because I know you want the kind of friendship right with your adult children you want that intimacy that closeness with your, with your children that you didn't have with your own parent. I know I've heard you say how much you want that.
Gwenevere Abriel: And being able to say the under those underlying feelings. I'm feeling, believe it or not, I feel kind of rejected, I feel kind of abandoned I feel her
Gwenevere Abriel: You're knowing that it's okay to sit with those uncomfortable emotions is a healing process for you and it's going to bring a more genuine
Gwenevere Abriel: Intimate relationship with your children to. I know it doesn't seem like it would seems like, Oh, I should just be able to say I'm angry and that should bring us closer
Gwenevere Abriel: It does. It's better than showing anger and and calling them names right it's better, but being able to really identify identify the underlying the core emotion of I'm scared.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is going to bring closeness and healing to you. Believe it or not,
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, you're doing great. You worked hard for that one. Oh boy.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: So I don't have anybody listed in here, and we've talked about friendships, you've had to really sort of these negative people have fallen away in your life and you're in a space right now where
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know if I trust people, these people are kind of still tripping. There's still a life and they're, they're not quite seeing that you're working on healing and there's still sort of throwing you know
Gwenevere Abriel: Connect opportunities in your face and that doesn't feel very supportive and I get that.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you still want to check them on the landscape of people that you can call or text. Is there anyone that let's say you were starting to consider using
Gwenevere Abriel: It was starting to slip in
Gwenevere Abriel: Or doctor shop. I'm going to go to another doctor
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, I'm going to take more buprenorphine.
Gwenevere Abriel: When those thoughts start to come if they do, and you just want to reach out and have a connection with someone who can you reach out to. Is there anyone in your landscape that you can give a call to
Christina Haro a: No.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not really, okay.
Christina Haro a: The only one I talked to, like, like, stuff like that. And we, you know, actually talked really good as my older son because me and him with a talk about anything and I taught him a lot of things that don't tell other people
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's fun and Martin.
Christina Haro a: Know my older son Martin.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can do it, but do you
Christina Haro a: Yeah I do, actually. And you know there's there's things I told him about my you know there's things I told him about my addiction and and you know he tells me you know a man. He says, I'm never going to give you. He says, you know, and I and I'm proud of you. He tells me
Christina Haro a: And we and we do we talk we talk about stuff you know and and I'm able to tell him things and he you know he never he doesn't judge me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, and for full we added a couple things there. That's excellent. I put Martin's name in there.
Gwenevere Abriel: And we also have
Gwenevere Abriel: Increased with no tolerance for semantic emotional coloring the integration. Okay so grounding in a boat.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is by grounding of concurrent experience rather than dissociated from the body. So I have a question for you.
Christina Haro a: Go where
Gwenevere Abriel: Do your such sport.
Gwenevere Abriel: Has anyone ever talked with you about
Gwenevere Abriel: Your. Let me see you start typing and look at you.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you're talking with someone. Has anyone ever mentioned. Oh, hey. Christine I noticed that you're closing your eyes are they dry. Is there anything going on. Has anyone ever said, Hey, hey, your eyes closed.
Christina Haro a: No, no.
Christina Haro a: So notice
Christina Haro a: No, no, I just I just brought back something my ex once told me because me. How come you're always walk behind me and you always look down and don't look at me.
Christina Haro a: Okay. And I don't know if that's the same thing as what I do when I close my eyes, maybe I don't like to
Christina Haro a: I don't know, maybe it's a way of shielding myself you know from a lot of stuff. I don't know. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't have to know we don't have to. I just wanted to check in, because that's it's been present throughout its right now. Everybody has their own style. I have my own aspects. These funky little things that I do to everybody has them.
Gwenevere Abriel: But for you. I had wondered what was going on with that if anyone had said anything. And what just came up for you was
Gwenevere Abriel: You used to kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe protect yourself and stay behind him, so that it was a lot less threatening if you were in front of him. Then something might happen.
Christina Haro a: And even though he was a nice person like Toby was a nice person, you know, wasn't mean or anything, but that was the way I
Christina Haro a: I've always been. I don't know. Maybe I've been like that since I was younger, I really never know this. I don't look you know look at people directly, or maybe I do close my eyes, I don't know, but
Christina Haro a: I remember that that came into my mind.
Christina Haro a: When you said that up.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, well, now remember, I'm not right in front of you so it could very well be that your eyes aren't closed and maybe they're looking down. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: It was an interesting kind of cool feature about this program is that these recordings. These are recorded and they used to hold on to them for a whole year. They don't anymore. They only hold on to them for a month and then they disappear.
Gwenevere Abriel: I have in the past when people are not aware of maybe something that they're saying all the time or something's going on.
Gwenevere Abriel: What we do, and it's a neat thing was we look at it together. Now I get. I'm like, Oh, I hate hearing my own voice. And I'm like, ah, because I'm such a goofball, but I'm you and I could look
Gwenevere Abriel: For a second, so that you could see what I see. And then you can formulate your own opinion.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is that something down the line. Maybe you'd be curious about
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Oh, sweet. So that's something for us to play with and that
Gwenevere Abriel: They're always recorded so we can we can take a peek at them.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Excellent. But there's a suspicion and typically people are on to something. You know what I mean, because notice what happened when I brought it up, you had this like your hand went up like this, it might be a shield. It might be a way for me to
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't like to look at me like there might be something going on where you're shielding. Maybe someone not being able to see you fully or make a I don't know shielding from something. I don't know. We'll find out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let me get back in the notes here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, how are you feeling right now as I brought that topic up. Let me just check in.
Christina Haro a: I believe it just made me think about it made me think about that, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see, got some time to maybe do a little
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll see how far we get in your room feels happy mommy's or friends. Yes, we all go through that one.
And happy increasing your times
Change this
Or two
Gwenevere Abriel: For two um you know you mentioned something and group, you want to follow up with that a little bit. You said I want everybody in the same room and I want to talk to him.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you want to talk to him about
Christina Haro a: Not necessarily about mean I like to get everybody together and talk about, you know, the dramatic stuff that's gone in and are you know gonna you know happened in our house because I haven't really had any everybody together because like when
Christina Haro a: One was here. The other one had left and we weren't all together. So I would like to get all my children together and just have a real talk, you know,
Christina Haro a: Okay, well,
Christina Haro a: Now, I mean, what thing, you know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. The goal would be, they will tell me what
Christina Haro a: How they feel
Christina Haro a: About what about know everything that's happened.
Christina Haro a: You know the drama that's happened in her house.
Christina Haro a: Because I know they all talk to each other, one by one, and maybe I talked to each one of them one by one, but I can't talk to all of them to get there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you share one of the drama events.
Christina Haro a: I'm just, you know, everything that happened like the last time I got it was here and she blew up and everybody was involved, you know, but
Christina Haro a: It just got so ugly, so you know her shouting at all of us and then shouting at me and then
Christina Haro a: It's like
Christina Haro a: It was like everybody was angry at each other because
Christina Haro a: You know, it's like everybody took the site. So I would like everybody to just get together and we could just get this all out, you know, of how they felt because I just get the sense that when that happened,
Christina Haro a: Everybody just kind of pulled away and we don't talk about it, or you know, everybody.
Christina Haro a: Team to build a different emotion at that time when all that happened with my daughter everybody like one was angry at the other one for taking the side mom was angry at me. It was just
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, notice how for example.
Gwenevere Abriel: In here, I asked you to go underneath the anger. What is it, what is it about your children that makes you think that they know the emotions that are going on underneath their anger.
Christina Haro a: I don't know. I
Christina Haro a: Don't I don't really know if I'm
Christina Haro a: How they really feel. I don't know what they're really, really feeling. Oh, I know that when I tried to talk to each one of them. It's like they just don't really want to tell me exactly how they feel they don't want to make me upset or they don't want to even bring up the topic.
Christina Haro a: So I was hoping you know maybe but got them all together, we could we could all just talk about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: So they don't want to upset you.
And so, exactly.
Gwenevere Abriel: But if everybody's together.
Gwenevere Abriel: They might be doing the same thing. Well, now I don't want to upset mom because there's three or four of us coming out at the same time. Why do you think this would be a successful approach.
Christina Haro a: I wouldn't know if it would be
Christina Haro a: I just hoping that if I got them all together. We could just get it out and they could, you know, feel better let out their emotional let out whatever they feel and maybe just clear the air that's what I'm hoping for.
Christina Haro a: Cleared the air and they can all feel a little more comfortable with each other.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Christina Haro a: I know, I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know I'm checking
Christina Haro a: To see, oh, I don't, I don't even know when I don't need to know
Christina Haro a: But that's what
Gwenevere Abriel: That. Oh, I hear you, I hear you. No, no, no, you're going to, you're going to do your thing. The reason why I keep focusing on it is I'm trying to understand maybe how
Gwenevere Abriel: Our work together, could be useful to that end. And, you know, you're my client. So I want to be sort of at all times, making sure that we're protecting your recovery that we're not creating this this potential relapse moment where there's drama.
Christina Haro a: So I'm looking
Gwenevere Abriel: At it and trying to say what new skills do you have or what new skills do they have that you believe that it wouldn't go sideways and be exactly what happened before, because if no one has anything new to bring to the room. Why wouldn't it just happen exactly the way it did before.
Christina Haro a: Exactly. Yeah. And I don't think I would be able to do that now say now, let's say, oh, tomorrow I'm going to bring them up together. And no, I don't think it would happen. No, definitely not. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: CC now me I'm a writer. I'm a systems person and systems trained person in marriage and family therapy. I love a group
Gwenevere Abriel: Me. I love it. I love the dynamics. The way people talk and a little faces. They make and they try their little communication tricks passive aggression or mind reading or
Gwenevere Abriel: You know they puff up big or they try to be the rescuer they tried to be the persecutor I love watching all of that, I find it all very fascinating and interesting but I don't get activated.
Gwenevere Abriel: because love is not on the line for me. I can step back from it. I can have a comp heart rate. I mean, I still get excited and like, oh, whoo. That was intense. You know, but I can hold on to myself because
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not gonna get my feelings hurt. They'll come probably come after Me too. And sometimes they do.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you might get hurt. And typically what you do Member your baggage. When you get hurt. You don't say.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, Clara one
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel hurt when you you just dismiss something I said it's not your style. In the past, say that
Gwenevere Abriel: It might be to show as what most of your family members use they show anger show anger. Anger. Anger and that's all anybody has in the room who's going to outwit
Gwenevere Abriel: Who's going to make a better counterpoint. And so it's just counterpoint after counterpoint and watch what you did. Who citing was who to then have counterpoints and have this argument.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nobody's feeling any better.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, if you're the matriarch right if you're the one that's going to represent someone who can hold on to herself, not make it about her and really almost like a therapist. Think about that right in the room who can say, you know, Clara.
Gwenevere Abriel: Kareena ice. Yeah, I know we were all yelling at each other, but I think underneath. We might have fear.
Gwenevere Abriel: Of rejection of abandonment, we might have other other feelings underneath. I want to be close to all of you. And as your mother. I feel sad when I think you guys don't have each other as each other's best friends. You know, I don't know what your truth is Christina, but like
Gwenevere Abriel: That's another way to go about it, not just let's clear the air because clear the air for some people is this. Oh, I'll tell you exactly what I think. And people just start coming out them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Again. Oh, the air. Clear All right. Oh, it's going to be clear and then one pop up on my way. We're in an argument. Again, it takes a different approach. And so, Christina. It was really neat that you said you may not quite want to do it right away.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you actually can do it internally inside your own self. In other words, ooh, I'm feeling hurt right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Someone just said something or they weren't even nearby. They were on the phone, or as a text and I regulated myself and I shifted my negative thinking
Gwenevere Abriel: I took a moment and reflected what's really going on for me. What do I really need. What do I really want when you're able to get in the habit of doing it internally, you're going to be the role model for teaching right and how to do it for your family.
Christina Haro a: Yeah, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Let's see, trying to see where where to start here.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do we got for time a little bit of time, let's use it just to review.
Gwenevere Abriel: I am hoping that you'll not only remember the belly breathing, but also have you know a lot of people forget this one, remember I was teaching you grounding and the five senses. If you get really activated.
Gwenevere Abriel: Some people keep little things in their pocket.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you can put your finger on it and just feel it when you start to get really angry or irritated. You can just sort of hold it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And get back into your body and feel grounded. See if you can keep playing with those throughout the week. What am I hearing right now I'm hearing cars go by. I'm hearing a bird. I hear my
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, whether it's a heater. Oh, I can hear.
Gwenevere Abriel: Her another car. Hey, I can hear one of your voice. I can hear some static i here. So we go to our five senses. That's grounding in the five senses.
Gwenevere Abriel: as many things as you can hear, as many things as you can well adjectives have one object. It's better if you just pick one object. So you grab one object to look at. I'm looking at this little icon on my computer black curved brown
Gwenevere Abriel: Straight, you know, you'd pull in as much data from that sense everything you hear everything if you pick one object you feel it describing the different texture. What do I smell smells a really strong one. A lot of people have a strong reaction to that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then taste. You know, usually get too much other than some people do.
Gwenevere Abriel: It will bring that heart rate down to
Gwenevere Abriel: And get your back in your body when you're feeling so angry.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's all there is.
Christina Haro a: Most people do.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's called emotional reasoning will I'm angry. So I'm justified and what I'm about to do.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's like, We'll wait, there's this we can access other parts of our brain for this to not just this one amygdala reaction. So see if you can try to remember also and practice the grounding in the five senses.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay. Yeah, excellent. It'll be really handy because when things like that are going on in our family, you're going to get activated, because you've been doing it that way for a long time.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the key is to use these other skills. We say, Okay, what do I do
Gwenevere Abriel: Or Let's all just
Gwenevere Abriel: Take a nice big belly breath. Oh, yeah. And you remember something else. Right. And that's when the frontal lobe comes online oftentimes it's completely offline when we're that upset.
Gwenevere Abriel: Alright, so, Christina.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you wanted to work on something for just a little bit longer today, what would it be, what was the so we could sort of spend a little bit of time on kind of working through what would that be
Christina Haro a: I don't know.
Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, why don't we take the, the one you mentioned, which is a pretty common one for you. It has to do with rejection
Gwenevere Abriel: And it could be mixed in with mistrust. It could be the hurt. It could be
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. What will this person do
Gwenevere Abriel: Now as I as I talked about rejection or mistrust and things like that. Do you immediately go to childhood. Do you go to your ex husband, what are, what are, what are you, where does your mind go with that.
Christina Haro a: My to the childhood childhood.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mom, and I'm assuming mom yelling and and sort of taking it out on you. And, yeah, yeah. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there a particular image that comes to mind.
Christina Haro a: No. No, really.
Christina Haro a: It's a mix of, you know, things that I, you know, remember just, I guess the mix of stuff that I remember you know different times. Okay, going up. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I remember we've explored. At age 12 and 13
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm unwanted why why why
Gwenevere Abriel: Why me, I think.
Gwenevere Abriel: I favor noticing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Mom favoring Nina right there must be or the might be something I can't remember if you identified why you think your mother did you look like someone
Gwenevere Abriel: THAT WAS IT LOOKED LIKE HER FOR FATHER or husband, or would you know with the reasoning was do you have. Do you know why she treated you differently.
Christina Haro a: I don't know. I know my, my sister, though we didn't mention those two years older than me that my, my favorite
Christina Haro a: She resembles my mom a lot. She's a lot like my mom looks like my mom mom always told me that I look like my dad. That's when she couldn't stand me
Gwenevere Abriel: There we go, that's probably right. So you do kind of have a story that you've come up with. I look like my father and and she had what kind of relationship with him.
Christina Haro a: They had a great relationship. That's the thing I don't understand, you know, they got along great that that old fashioned marriage, you know, there would be
Christina Haro a: They'd be reality to their other or any of that.
Christina Haro a: So I never quite understood why you know you would tell me that
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's this mother that has all this this way of behaving. Did your dad ever see the way she treated
Christina Haro a: I you
Christina Haro a: Get your dad see
Oh, yeah.
Christina Haro a: Oh yeah, and we would tell her all the time. You know, when he would, he would catch her hitting me slapping me around, he would tell her you know you're crazy easy to do good and up until one day how you treat her
Christina Haro a: So I don't know. You know, I really don't know. You know, my mom, my dad had a good relationship.
Christina Haro a: I only thing I know and that dynamic so okay let me tell you my, my dad was a big that was a drinker.
Christina Haro a: He came from a big family. Don't like 30 brothers and sisters, but they all that family were drinker. They're all alcoholics, you know, and
Christina Haro a: My mom grew up with just her dad and my grandpa was an alcoholic and for my dad's my mom's father was an alcoholic.
Christina Haro a: So she's, she's a Dallas cheese, we already knew. You know how bad of an alcoholic. My grandpa was
Christina Haro a: And I guess she had at that time when her mom died. You know, when she was fairly young so there was only three sisters and to tell us how that they had
Christina Haro a: With their with their dad, you know, he never missed you did an awesome never about so they pretty much based themselves. The girls and then
Christina Haro a: My dad was an alcoholic. Well, not really because my dad worked all weekend, get a drink you with more of a drinker on weekends, but it was weird because
Christina Haro a: It got along great. Yet she was always angry is family, you know, she was angry at them and she would tell me all the time.
Christina Haro a: That I look so much like my dad's family that maybe that's where I should go. We had a
Christina Haro a: I had an uncle that live because be right across the street from us, you know, bam, you open the door, you saw them. That was my dad's brother and my mom used to tell me you should go live across the street.
Christina Haro a: You tell me that I didn't belong there that I should go live across the street.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, Tina.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know how much
Gwenevere Abriel: Are you in touch with how that feels baby that's that's incredibly painful to even here.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, man.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I wish your mom hadn't said that it's not the truth. I don't, I don't know. I don't know what her truth inside was I don't don't get it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But I think you're onto
Gwenevere Abriel: Something, there's something about the way you looked
Gwenevere Abriel: A bit about how she felt around
Gwenevere Abriel: And my guess it's it's exactly what you said is from her own childhood. You may resemble her father, you may resemble those things and it's coming up for her and she just didn't do her healing.
Gwenevere Abriel: And she just took it out on you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, I'm so sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I know how careful you are to not let that happen with your kids. I know you're so careful.
Gwenevere Abriel: You don't want them to go through it.
I know
Talk on it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And he has your mom passed away. She's still alive.
Christina Haro a: She passed away, she passed away.
Christina Haro a: Was it five years ago.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, and she never acknowledged the deep wounds that she
Christina Haro a: She did. Yeah.
Christina Haro a: Yes, you did.
Gwenevere Abriel: What did she say to you.
Christina Haro a: I took care of a lot. I took care of her. The last
Christina Haro a: I guess about the last four years because she had terminal cancer. She died very young. She was only 74 was you die young. Yes, she did. She told me she was sorry for what he did to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was that enough. Did it seem like she really understood it, though.
Christina Haro a: Yeah, she did. She did we, we actually I brought it with me because
Christina Haro a: Nobody wanted to take care of her. So I brought it with me.
Gwenevere Abriel: That must have been difficult.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, I can't even imagine. I really can't even imagine taking care of her after her failure to take care, you
Gwenevere Abriel: Proof.
Gwenevere Abriel: So she said she was sorry. But did she tell like stories to you about how she owns
Gwenevere Abriel: Like hey you know well, okay.
Christina Haro a: She
Christina Haro a: She told me one day she looked at me. She was good at dies, you told me
Christina Haro a: I'm sorry she says I
Christina Haro a: I know I never to do right
Gwenevere Abriel: It's nice to hear it. It's nice to hear it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Does she show you some kindness near the end.
Christina Haro a: Yeah we became best friends. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: And the stories you told me earlier about her family of origin. The alcoholism there and the alcoholism on this side and a lot of alcoholism. Right. And even if it was a big part of your life for a period of time to
Christina Haro a: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: What else, what's something positive, that you have in common.
Christina Haro a: I don't know, we both like to cook. You know, I mean, especially when she moved over here with getting the kitchen and cook together. So, you know, we will enjoy that last few years together.
It was nice.
Gwenevere Abriel: So Christina, let's have an in vivo experience. Notice how you're probably experiencing some distress right now as these memories are very much on the surface.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's use
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's, let's practice that other skill. Let's practice that grounding in the five. Let's do it together.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, have a nice nourishing inhale and then
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice, nice, easy breath and ICC breath and put your
Gwenevere Abriel: Right hand on something. You got anything over there to your right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Which got beautiful pen.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, yeah, that's right. And so just take a look at it and I want you to just start describing adjectives, the color, the texture, just as much as you can as quickly as you can. Go for it.
Christina Haro a: It's soft and smooth. It's long.
Christina Haro a: A narrow pointing
Christina Haro a: It clicks.
Gwenevere Abriel: So yeah, you're doing tactile open your eyes and taking data from your eyes.
Christina Haro a: Um, it's black and red.
Christina Haro a: Very light.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's that's tactile, this is what's different about this particular approach. So let me do some clarification.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now you're you're blending tactile with visual
Gwenevere Abriel: This is why it's different.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it is difficult to do that's going to get your mind off of something. If you want to be off of it. So you would do it only data coming through your eyes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Grace silver round shiny dull lines circles to
Gwenevere Abriel: Metal whole
Gwenevere Abriel: Spongy gray clip.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then see how that was all data from my eyes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then if you want to you can go to tactile then my eyes are closed and now I'm oh ridges moves to loose twisty
Gwenevere Abriel: Pointy smooth. There's a whole rubbery squishy cliquey
Gwenevere Abriel: You see it. Those are tactile tactile means touch and then
Gwenevere Abriel: So now now now close your eyes and see if you can name as many things that you're here.
Christina Haro a: I hear a bird. I hear I hear cars I hear honking I hear
Christina Haro a: I hear a bus.
Christina Haro a: I hear the plastic just been
Gwenevere Abriel: Any refrigerator any kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: Like low hum sounded I
Christina Haro a: Heard the rubric yeah I
Christina Haro a: Like the refrigerator. Most older
Younger, yeah.
Christina Haro a: That's about it.
Uh huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: And what about smell. See if you can get in touch with smell. These are hard to get to see if you can find what's going on in there. So it's nice. Inhale.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you had to name at least two, what would they be
Happy
Gwenevere Abriel: And bring your
Gwenevere Abriel: Bring the fabric of your shirt to your nose.
Gwenevere Abriel: What you got in there.
Christina Haro a: Smell London. London so
Christina Haro a: Okay, Downey
Gwenevere Abriel: See if you're
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice. Check the back of your hand to sometimes they have other smell sitting there with what you got there.
I'm
Christina Haro a: My lotion. Ooh, very
Good.
Christina Haro a: My hand smell like coffee.
Gwenevere Abriel: Fantastic. And now, last one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Go inside that mouse ears, see what's in their
Christina Haro a: Coffee.
Christina Haro a: Coffee. Coffee and
Christina Haro a: My morning breakfast. No toothpaste.
Christina Haro a: Toothpaste. There it is. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: So Christina. Notice how your body's feeling now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Versus when that memory was coming up, you are able to regulate and bring heart rate down probably relieve maybe some tension in the chest. That's why this activity is so useful.
Gwenevere Abriel: And doing it exactly the way like with fidelity, meaning we don't mix the sensations, because you were kind of mixing
Gwenevere Abriel: Because you had your eyes. Close it.
Gwenevere Abriel: By the way,
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, right. Because you so you went to tactile but with your eyes closed that memory.
Gwenevere Abriel: That memory might still be
Gwenevere Abriel: Sharp. So for you, you might want to open your eyes and start just bringing data in adjectives through the eyes silver gray circles shiny dull round.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay in through the eyes so that that memory doesn't sit there where you're shifting the neural network you're focusing on sensations coming from the body, which is a bottom up. I won't get into that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Approach. I'm going to sell so top down. So you really going to change what your brain is focused on
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, all right, we're at the top of the hour and just tell me a little bit about what you noticed that was important for you today. Christina. What did you notice
Christina Haro a: I think I gotta work on myself.
Christina Haro a: I need to be a little more involved in I'm
Christina Haro a: What I'm feeling, I guess, yeah. A little more
Christina Haro a: Than to kind of look into myself and do a little more spiritual stuff because I know I've lacked on that and that wasn't very important to me. I just did a couple of years ago.
Christina Haro a: I was really, you know, into the spiritual, religious stuff, you know, and I was really important to me. Okay, so I really want to get back into that part of my life.
Gwenevere Abriel: So maybe the homework if you want to over this coming week is, what would that mean to you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I will do a yoga practice. I will come up with a prayer every time I start to get angry. I'll say this prayer or maybe just going to a women's group or
Gwenevere Abriel: Or reading literature reading the Bible reading the word, there's a certain scripture or singing gospel. I don't know what it is but you homework for you think of a way that really feels like no, no, no. Go ahead of yours ideas her ideas they suck. I got one. I want this.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want us to be yours, how you can do it, anybody little thing that feels indeed quite spiritual for you. This will really be evidence
Christina Haro a: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm in it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm starting to look at myself I'm getting more spiritual because you just identified today. I need to look at myself a little bit
Gwenevere Abriel: And pulling in a little bit more of that spiritual connection but you got to see what that is for you. For some people literally is walking in the mountains. I mean it for everyone. It's very different. You got to find your own that feels deeply loving and personal. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: ALL RIGHT, MAMA. I will see you in group.
Christina Haro a: Already but
Gwenevere Abriel: Is there. Have a good week. Let me just make sure we'll, we'll see each other. Same time next week.
Christina Haro a: Same time
And is there any
Gwenevere Abriel: Medication or anything right now giving me to send a message.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, everything's fine.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll see in group.
Christina Haro a: Be good to you. Okay. Bye. Okay, bye bye
Gwenevere Abriel: Hi, good morning.
Nick Graham: Good morning. How are you
Gwenevere Abriel: Excellent yourself.
Nick Graham: Doing well doing well. Okay, cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, let me get a note open here. All right, three minutes late. Yeah, I had to, you know, I was talking with someone this morning.
Yeah.
Nick Graham: Yes, you do.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's hard to just turn off.
Gwenevere Abriel: The water worship way isn't it.
Nick Graham: Exactly, yeah. Totally, yeah. Alright, so let me just
Gwenevere Abriel: See what we got here.
We got
Gwenevere Abriel: And let me just get a little bit while opened up and now here the logistics, sort of, of
Gwenevere Abriel: Of what the evenings look like for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it that you kind of don't have a for some people they can't get their eyes off their phone, right, they're just stuck to it. Other people are like, yeah, I look at it once or twice a day. Um, what, what's it like for you around you.
Nick Graham: Well, I took a text sabbatical over the weekend, which is pretty nice, actually, to where I just that thing was gone. And I was up in the mountains and I do like think about a lot of stuff. So, like a lot of like future stuff. And so I did that and but yeah I don't
Nick Graham: depends on the day. Some days. I'm like,
Nick Graham: Watching seven hours of Facebook videos and then some days. I'm like,
Nick Graham: Looking at all. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I like that text sabbatical.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's what that was. Yeah, I had that 8am appointment out. I said, hey, if anybody wants to be on call because I wasn't sure if you're going to make it.
Nick Graham: Oh really,
Nick Graham: Good. It's good that
Nick Graham: I know
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so, um,
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm just saying, you know, I would invite you to not take it personally because I'm sure I've got people here during the day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, okay.
Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, okay, you spent some time up in the mountains.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, so it's almost a spiritual experience this weekend.
Nick Graham: Yeah, yeah, partially like
Nick Graham: To think about like
Nick Graham: Like if I offered it to Oregon to work this summer and
Nick Graham: I got like my ex is like trying to come back into my life and all these like things are happening right now. So I'm like really thinking about stuff you want to
Gwenevere Abriel: Kind of unpack a little bit
Nick Graham: Yeah, yeah. I mean, like, though the Oregon thing is like, you know, kind of
Nick Graham: I guess it offered like running an office up in Eugene, but which would be cool and everything, but it's going to go against my goals of like being able to get in full time school because I can't do both. I can't work in the school with the amount of hours in this job.
Nick Graham: Can I decided not to do that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, that almost says how seriously you want school to happen. Oh boy.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what I'm hearing you just
Nick Graham: You just
Protected
Gwenevere Abriel: That time like you really said, No, I'm not going to take this opportunity in order to protect. I want to go to school. Look at me. Look, what I'm willing to let go of. So I think you must want it pretty badly.
Nick Graham: Yeah, I guess so, yeah, that was cool.
Gwenevere Abriel: And ok so turned it down. Now, it might be other stuff too. So tell me, Sydney does is a pretty complicated one.
Nick Graham: Yeah, that's a really complicated one.
Nick Graham: Something to the effect of
Nick Graham: She regrets things that she did and she wants to try other things. That's basically what your conversation to me was in
Nick Graham: So we're like,
Nick Graham: Getting back in touch a little bit. It's been fine like I've been freaked out. You know, I don't do that anymore. I says, Good like I, yeah, I really don't. I mean, maybe I haven't
Gwenevere Abriel: Had a chance to do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Probably. Hold on a sec. Well, that's not true. You could have been let me go. Let's just rewind a little bit
Gwenevere Abriel: Is and I want to respect you know about psychological boundary for you is there are you deliberately being general and non specific with I regret, if there was an infidelity, or I regret having a called you
Gwenevere Abriel: kicking you out or blaming you for this. Or, or, you know, I can't remember all this stuff. If it was
Nick Graham: Yeah party.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so you did have an opportunity to lose your shit. You definitely could have
Gwenevere Abriel: You could have
Yeah.
Nick Graham: Yeah, yeah. I had it had a chance to
Nick Graham: After yeah and I like I didn't hate myself not like getting in that loop is like name calling. And then feeling like shit and then
Nick Graham: Stopped. So that was healthier, you know, then it's been okay
Gwenevere Abriel: Now, do you remember I want to reinforce what you were doing to make that happen. Sometimes it's unconscious because of the deep work that you've been doing
Gwenevere Abriel: Because those old triggers aren't being relived as if in the moment and she's representative of this old Whoa, and sometimes the healing is just, well now it's just not as intense and we can't label it consciously and we just move on. If there's no
Gwenevere Abriel: We don't have to know why we feel better. Hey, let's just keep feeling better.
Nick Graham: Yeah, seriously.
Gwenevere Abriel: All about that. So, um, but if you did label it. Do you know, do you remember catching. Oh my gosh. I just know that if I would have heard this before I would have unearthed rage and righteousness and indignation and I would have gone in.
Gwenevere Abriel: This particular spiral.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's. Do you remember catching something and saying, Oh, look at this. Look, what I'm doing now I good what I've got. Now,
Nick Graham: You know what, like not know like not really like there been other times that I've been doing that, like,
Nick Graham: Like the belly breathing, like, with emphasis on the belly and I was in that a few times in like
Nick Graham: describing things like I saw, I saw actually sold on the TV show or something like that, like, great. Better Call Saul, you know, the breaking bad kind of show like this guy is like freaking out. And he was like, he's like, look at things and be like black smooth glossy like describing things
Gwenevere Abriel: In the five senses. That's a great technique.
Nick Graham: Yeah, oh yeah, yeah. We did do that just not in that we did the breathing the taste the
Nick Graham: Taste, smell that all that stuff. Yeah.
Nick Graham: I like
Nick Graham: Do that a little bit. Yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah, I forgot about that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Listen, at the end of the game. I'm happy to. I'm happy. If you guys think it was all your idea.
Nick Graham: Some actor had more impact than you.
Nick Graham: Did that hey, and now
Gwenevere Abriel: She says, so there's she says I regret, you notice yourself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right there was some belly breathing, there's some sort of using some of the
Gwenevere Abriel: Grounding exercise emotional regulation and then there is something, she said, which has to do with the future. She wants to what, what did she say
Nick Graham: She said something to the effect of, I want to work things out kind of thing. And what does that. What does that mean to you, um, good question. I think it means
Nick Graham: I Don't Think things will ever be able to be the same as like before, you know, like, because a lot has changed.
Nick Graham: SHE'S CHANGED I've changed so
Nick Graham: I think it means
Nick Graham: That she wants to spend time and try to make it like try to
Nick Graham: Maybe like
Nick Graham: reclaim the relationship that we had before. I don't really know.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so then that's the place. Do you want to talk about that a little bit, because I'm excited. Right. I'm a marriage and family therapist. So you start talking about relationships. And I'm like,
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, we
Gwenevere Abriel: Talked about that.
Nick Graham: Yeah, I mean, yeah, I mean, I think, like, you probably have more valuable insight, you know, like so, I'd be fine with talking about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what interests me.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is you want on this hike.
Gwenevere Abriel: By eliminate by saying no to an opportunity and Eugene, you're basically opening up this wide open space for yes for school did you also basically open up a yes to Sydney
Nick Graham: Yeah, yeah, totally. So that was the thing that actually talked with my like my district grow the person who offered me a job. I said, like
Nick Graham: I have a fulfilling marriage that I now have another shot to like try to correct. And I said, like, I don't think it would be
Nick Graham: Like, I need to do like probably everything I can to
Nick Graham: To like save it, you know, to try with what would like what while still not like
Nick Graham: Killing myself you know over it kind of thing. You know, so
Nick Graham: I like I vows to
Nick Graham: do my best to promote them. Yeah. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go back.
Gwenevere Abriel: She didn't keep hers in some way. That's her
Gwenevere Abriel: But you didn't say I'll marry you if you keep your vows.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'll keep mine if you keep yours. You didn't do it that way. You said, and that's where faith comes in. It's i'm going to
Gwenevere Abriel: Commit to this. These are the things. And this is what I'm going to do. Yeah, there is no way to exactly constructs and marriage that you had before. And maybe you don't want to. So you're you're growing. Now you've been getting health. You've been getting professional help from LA.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're working on and
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know what she's been doing, but she's been adding, you know, some drugs to her system that are helping me. And so let's just talk about you when you went on that hike. Now I heard you say, right, I'm going to stay put. Here I wanna
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to stay married, I want to keep my vows. I'm going to keep putting energy into this marriage. Yeah.
Nick Graham: Which is also a complicated thing because
Nick Graham: She basically believes that we got married too fast. And I also do we got married after like a few months because that's how you doing, you're in the military. So
Nick Graham: Yeah. And so her thing is like
Nick Graham: She wants to essentially start out from like
Nick Graham: Scratch really which
Nick Graham: I don't think is a horrible idea but
Nick Graham: She's like, I don't want to be made as, like, but you are like illegally, you know, like, legally, you are. And so I think she has some fear of
Nick Graham: Marriage or some fear of like being the illusion of that. So I don't know, it's difficult to work through that.
Nick Graham: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's, let's, that's her stuff, but I'm going to
Nick Graham: Show you.
Gwenevere Abriel: You want. So notice how right you
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's just say you depart from she's not clear. Okay, then I get all this for now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Getting clear about what you want. Let's say it's not contingent on her behavior. Let's just say I want it. If it is true, I want to keep. I want to keep my mouse. And what I want. Do you know what you want.
Gwenevere Abriel: more now than you did before.
Nick Graham: Um,
Nick Graham: Well, I want to
Nick Graham: I guess like be more present. Okay. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's that's the only you know what that is. Um, let's get some specifics, I want to be more present with what
Nick Graham: Well, I think that there were a lot of times when I was using like using drugs like during
Nick Graham: Our last one and
Nick Graham: Then afterwards was a lot of fallout from that and has like heavy doses of Suboxone which kind of, you know, don't
Nick Graham: Have one like think super clearly
Nick Graham: So, something like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know how that kind of manifests and other words
Gwenevere Abriel: We try this one.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to be more honest assertive and forthright with how I'm feeling in the moment.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to
Gwenevere Abriel: speak my mind in the moment when I see something that I don't like where once, maybe I would stuff it down.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I would ignore it. But now I would like to be present with my preferences with my needs with my wants. It's still her choice, of course, people can say no.
Gwenevere Abriel: But being present means I feel what's happening to me right now and I name it. I now I'm working with the therapist. I now have some more words, I'm not
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not kind of lost in the shame, which completely, you don't get to pay attention to anything, we're just miserable.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that's it. And, or we're acting out because we don't want to feel it. So you're getting better and better and better at it slowly but surely
Gwenevere Abriel: And being present with your own feelings, you're naming them. And then if you want to know it gets in her personal now Sydney. You may notice that I'm saying things like, I feel angry when you don't respond to my text for three days in a row.
Gwenevere Abriel: And that might be a new way of communicating. So some things might come up. Now when it gets in her personal with
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to improve communication. I want clear direct communication. I want to be doing things that you and I never grew up doing. So this marriage, we can see if we have compatibility. Let's see if I'm, if we like each other. And if we're compatible.
Nick Graham: Yeah.
Nick Graham: It's kind of kind of work that and um
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, what just happened, but
Nick Graham: No, I just had a thought. And then I completely forgot what it was, it wasn't a bad. It was like
Nick Graham: I just completely forgot is insane. But yeah, I think, I think that sounds. Well, I use that actually
Nick Graham: When we were like,
Nick Graham: Kind of in a bickering match. And then I like
Nick Graham: sent an email with like, and it's like, like with how I feel, basically like instead of like
Nick Graham: Which I think one can be like red and not sometimes like the messenger. Like if you're in a conversation. Sometimes if you're mad at that person, you're not going to listen to anything they say. No matter what because you're mad at them.
Nick Graham: I like
Nick Graham: I like sending email with like feelings to that, like how I feel about a specific thing.
Nick Graham: And I was effectively.
Nick Graham: Like actually saying like
Nick Graham: No judgments. No, you know, because I find myself like
Nick Graham: Not only saying how I feel. But saying how I feel like they are now.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the trouble.
Nick Graham: And it was a big trouble. During our image to is I would like
Nick Graham: You do like not not only accusations, but
Nick Graham: weird stuff. Like, I would just like to say this is how you are like oh really, is it how I am like, you know, that
Gwenevere Abriel: No, you know, and you so this showed up before when
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, it was with a
Gwenevere Abriel: Friend girl right it was that oh you you're doing this. You did this cycle analysis on mode on her instead of owning
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, a lot right very different approach.
Nick Graham: Really different
Gwenevere Abriel: So I'm going to tell you, you are more than welcome. And I think I've mentioned this before, but now that she's got a little buy in. If you guys decide.
Gwenevere Abriel: To I wouldn't be your forever couples therapist, I'll always be your therapist, which means I'm pretty good at it, you probably wouldn't even see a bias, but I know deep down inside. I'm going to be biased towards you, no matter what, it's just
Gwenevere Abriel: A fair assessment, but most people can't see it because I'm really good at being objective.
Gwenevere Abriel: But if you guys decide to start this way to say, you know what, Sydney let's at least see what happens if you and I both go meet with when a beer and we learn the I feel statement we learn mirroring. These are just skills. You guys can talk about
Gwenevere Abriel: Whether a blue as a better car for a minivan I doesn't matter content, you can still learn it without doing the, oh my gosh, I can't believe you cheated on me. You don't have to do go to content. You could light fluffy, you can still learn the skills.
Gwenevere Abriel: I feel mirroring and Pathak validation, you have these things. You guys can talk, you can navigate the waters. The
Gwenevere Abriel: 50 feet waves. Okay then, you know, because then a therapist is really in the room, and it's embodied in those linguistic structures, because if you have fidelity with them, you're going to be able to say
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, you use like instead of I feel. And if you guys have buy in and you say as hokey as it seems.
Gwenevere Abriel: And as contrived as it seems as boxed in as it seems, we're not paying all this shit ton of money to a therapist. If we follow this structure. I think we'll be able to get through these really difficult things. We got to talk about until we find one.
Gwenevere Abriel: And more than that, if you want to meet with me. I know finances are an issue, but I am meeting with people in here and it's working. I just have one person.
Gwenevere Abriel: In the room and they're sitting here, or they're logged in on another zoom
Gwenevere Abriel: Thing. Yeah. And they just sit here. We all login together and then we talk. So I'm open. I'm very flexible. But that's what happens. It's a skill building. I'm not your couples therapist, it ends.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because then let's say she has a bias about like, I'm not crazy. I don't want to blame in me, she gets to find out a real time that you can listen to her.
Gwenevere Abriel: And she can feel safe. So then later on when you let's say you talk with you say, well, let's go find one that's in real person like brick and mortar type deal
Gwenevere Abriel: Hey, my. Hey, I got this one. Let's go check this person out, you have a frame of reference. You have all, do you, do you have this sense of feeling supported, kind of like you did with when a bear.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I do. Well, let's keep working with her and then you and I can come back to here. But either way, these skills. They're good for everybody. I'm paying they work magic, they work at work. They work with their family. They work with her with our spouses or children.
Gwenevere Abriel: They just work. Okay, so I'm throwing out there. You decide. All you have to do is text me and say let's set up a time she's game. I don't even need another release because you would be introducing her into it.
Nick Graham: Right, this is your and
Gwenevere Abriel: Here's the other thing I'm not going to go oh yeah and Nick thinks this than that, it's, it's just still want me disclosing because this stuff is still very, very privileged to to our work together.
So you give it some thought.
Nick Graham: For sure. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And
Gwenevere Abriel: I imagine that's on your mind a lot what to do.
Nick Graham: Yeah.
Nick Graham: Because it's a big thing to be changed in a big
Nick Graham: Crazy situation.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like, let me do desert devil's advocate. Yeah. What is there to think about just go back to where you're married, like what's the opposite of that. Like what, what are you thinking about
Nick Graham: I'm
Nick Graham: Kind of
Nick Graham: Well the main thing that is hard for me is like when she had like left to do what she was doing like partying and stuff. Well, she's like
Nick Graham: Still like obviously going to be those their friends and she said, We hanging out with that group of friends like I can't get past
Nick Graham: The thought that, like, oh yeah. Like, that's probably the friend of shoes with and she did that thing that was not good for our marriage or, you know, and so, like, for me, it's been like
Nick Graham: A battle, like, oh, wait.
Nick Graham: Am I, how do I not feel or be controlling when I'm going through, like, and I said, My feelings about it. But still, like,
Gwenevere Abriel: What are they label. What was, what do we label those feelings, what is
Nick Graham: Probably label those feelings like
Nick Graham: I almost like
Nick Graham: Believe that my
Nick Graham: My perception of like what she did was like all because of her friends like you know obviously individuals make decisions and so
Nick Graham: I just like believe that her friends are
Nick Graham: bad influences and
Nick Graham: Do too many drugs and
Nick Graham: Okay, so I look. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not labeling the feeling good. That's a great explanation. You're a beautiful story and how does it make you feel right now.
Nick Graham: Is sinking feeling nervous.
Nick Graham: It makes you feel uncertain for like the
Nick Graham: The features like feasibility of that.
Nick Graham: It's a steal.
Nick Graham: It's like a like a touch of like resentment, anger, as well, like for these people who have never, I don't know what they, they probably never done anything wrong.
Nick Graham: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: If she were here today. I'd be saying
Gwenevere Abriel: Can you tell her how you feel when she does lesson such and it might sound like I feel nervous and afraid when you're still hanging out with Tim Ed, Sarah.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it would just get that far. And she would have to hear you and then you would carry on and then you would continue and say probably all
Gwenevere Abriel: You were seduced by their ideas of what fun is and maybe it'll happen again and I'm gonna
Gwenevere Abriel: Get it going to have my hopes.
Gwenevere Abriel: That will have some development of stability stability pulled out from under me right, it would be it maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know if that's what we're getting to hear
Nick Graham: Yeah, like basically what I said was, like, similarly to that. And I was like,
Nick Graham: I said like, it's like right now like we need a lot of work and
Nick Graham: It said it's probably unrealistic to think that like you can maintain a lifestyle of going out four or five days a week.
Nick Graham: Like still be together in is what I told her, like me, I don't know. That was how I felt like I feel like if she hangs out like she does all the time. It won't work. And she hasn't been
Nick Graham: So I think maybe you gotta cross on
Gwenevere Abriel: What you and I don't know. And she may not know
Gwenevere Abriel: On the outside, it's I have this mist life is party now. Um, but why is it needed like we don't have to have that that
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what 20 year olds kind of tend to do. But that's what's the underlying need here what's you know, is she getting underlying psychological unmet needs you know from childhood. Also is she addressing them um
Yeah.
Nick Graham: Not adjusting them.
Nick Graham: Well, she's addressing them through what she's doing. And she's kind of expressed that that
Nick Graham: That, um,
Nick Graham: She's like developmentally behind as well because you know when you get married at 21 you kind of miss those years in terms of like the social structure. So I kind of told her like
Nick Graham: Says she was saying kind of sounded like
Nick Graham: She's 24 it sounded like a like a 20 year old, you know, like a college student being
Nick Graham: Saying, some stuff about going out of here for for 20 and like is just like some college like like middle cut like younger college kid stuff in.
Nick Graham: And I told her, like, I feel like you sound like pretty young. And she's like, Well, we haven't. Probably the behind like I'm like sending it she feels like she missed a lodge developmentally behind. I don't know what to do with it. I
Gwenevere Abriel: Want you to picture before there was clubbing okay we humans, culturally, if not at clubs, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not a developmental milestone individuation
Gwenevere Abriel: So, but what is right is individuation. And so, in the context of maybe I'm hypothesizing here. I don't know if because if there was really and truly on your part control.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe what she's actually explaining is
Gwenevere Abriel: This individuation part may have been missing. So if let's say she was in a home where she didn't get to
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, feel her own if she didn't get to see herself. Oh, I can be trustworthy. Look, I'm going to make good choices at midnight.
Gwenevere Abriel: At one o'clock. I'm going to make good choices. Oh, I'm going to solve my own problems. Look at my family incrementally giving me more and more trust that's a missed growth.
Gwenevere Abriel: Point that can be redone that can be redone that can be done. Now, that's fine, but that can be done in a monogamous relationship to, I don't know where you guys recapitulate to your family of origin stuff that I'm out, I'm out of the loop on a lot of that.
Nick Graham: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: But to say I gotta do my clubbing because that's just saying I gotta do know it's meeting a need
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it attention is it right. Is it freedom. And so when she's with you, there's this sort of she feels this stuff that she didn't get to sort of resolve developmentally with her family, but that can be done without having to go out and party.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so that's what really a good marriage THERAPIST WILL ADDRESS. She'll be he or she would address those pieces so that each of you can fully individually and then sort of look at each other and say, Okay, I'm a full person here I choose you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like choose you. Right. I like you. Let's Let's Let's Let's go play, let's work this out. Let's go have some fun. Let's live our life together let's plan. Let's do but there's something going on between you two that I'm blind to but I'm
Gwenevere Abriel: That the notion of that there's a developmental piece missing. I don't think it's really about the
Nick Graham: Money.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a solution to an unmet need to a problem. And I'd be curious to know what what that problem really is.
Nick Graham: Yeah, she was a Navy wife and she like photo my underwear. She was like, I was a housewife and that's like that stigma of being a housewife.
Nick Graham: Even though she worked and still have a social licence worked and did whatever she wasn't, but I think there's a stigma of being a housewife. It's probably been reinforced socially by
Nick Graham: A lot of people like like when guys would like who would normally flirt with her with tell her she's married, it would like make her feel like, I don't know, some kind of
Nick Graham: Finding or something like that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah i don't i don't know either. But your lives are so different now. You're not in there, you're, you're
Gwenevere Abriel: Taking bikes, you've got a puppy.
Nick Graham: I know
You're in
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I mean, does she see you now. Does she seemed does she go. Haha. You seem a little different, does she see it acknowledge it. Are you noticing a different response from her.
Nick Graham: Yeah, yeah, I do. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, that's got to be reassuring and and and validating that she is noticeable to someone
Nick Graham: Yeah, I mean, if nothing else, I feel like like better, because like
Nick Graham: For the first time, like I feel secure in like like knowing like kind of like
Nick Graham: How I feel and not like I'm not like I'm still like drill to like a good measure of insecure but it feels like good knowing that like
Nick Graham: If
Nick Graham: This doesn't work out that it's fine because I communicated what I needed to. And I said, expectation. So that's been positive.
Gwenevere Abriel: It took a while to get here. I think sort of not rushing right being able to say we rushed before. Let's be intentional about this. There's
Gwenevere Abriel: putting pressure on us right now there's no one putting pressure, there's, there's no urgent super important both acknowledge, but let's go gently really intentionally and then communicate. How we doing now. How we doing now. How we doing now. How we doing now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because it sounds like both of you are confused. What do you want, what do you
Gwenevere Abriel: Know you a little you I don't know what she's saying, but it sounds like it's easier for her to say what she doesn't want and that doesn't really get you what you want.
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't want this, and I don't want that they don't. Okay. Well, in the absence of those negative things that, what do we have, let's define
Gwenevere Abriel: Really, what do we want in this marriage. What is marriage mean to you at this age and maybe the vow, in a sense, this rotten fruit fresh is
Gwenevere Abriel: What do we commit to what do we really committing to do for the rest of our lives together. Maybe it's revisiting, what are we up to every 10 years or something, I don't know, but it's your marriage. It's not like anybody
Gwenevere Abriel: It's yours so
Gwenevere Abriel: Nice and slow.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So, and anything else going on. What about did it get to the point where the addict in you the voice said, oh, this is a great reason to go use again, don't forget about your connect
Gwenevere Abriel: Number. In the next town remember him. You still got a friend that still has this number did that voice come up
Nick Graham: Yeah, always comes up like kind of frequently the fact that I could just like buy drugs from some guy in Florida, and he could send them in the mail to me like that that
Yeah.
Nick Graham: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I just
Gwenevere Abriel: And you have gotten rid of his number out of your cell phone.
Nick Graham: You haven't stolen my brain forever.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, that's right, yeah. We were playing around with. Don't you dare sell it to me. Don't give it to me because right
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you arrested. We got to. We went to the ridiculous, or I went there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so what do we do with that.
You because You still gotta crack
Gwenevere Abriel: Those are risky.
Nick Graham: Yeah, yeah. I mean, it's kind of like
Nick Graham: I guess like I know I could. I know I could do it the next day. And, you know, and I guess.
Nick Graham: It's kind of like
Nick Graham: Which I don't think I think of it.
Nick Graham: Because like I always know I could do it.
Nick Graham: But just not today, kind of thing.
Nick Graham: And so that's been working like
Gwenevere Abriel: It can for a while.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I can postpone it for today. Well, then another day has passed, where I didn't do it, and in kind of short term that those can be effective.
But
Nick Graham: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Having access
Gwenevere Abriel: It be beneficial for you to not have access to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I told me that you told this guy don't sell it to me. I can't remember if you said
Nick Graham: Yeah yeah yeah tell me that wouldn't ever change anything like
Nick Graham: That you know people are shameless though that's the thing that I have to kind of like live with the fact that I have like access, no matter where I go forever. As long as I remember, this guy's number the access is there eternally you know
Nick Graham: And so
Nick Graham: That's like it's scary thing.
Nick Graham: But it is the reality.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's revisit that number in your head to keep it there.
Nick Graham: Is an easy one to remember. So
Nick Graham: Um, I don't. Give too much thought to but
Nick Graham: Like there's certain numbers that I just remember like like my childhood home phone number, you know, my, my, my friends, brothers 683 1616 is his cell phone number and I never even called him once like
Nick Graham: My friends number from when he moved to Cincinnati and I never talked to him again, like I just remember like numbers and they just stay in my brain eternally
Nick Graham: Yeah, it is. But it's like not good in this situation.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, it's okay. The truth of the matter is being realistic. Hey, you know, we're never really more than a couple of people away from getting to
Gwenevere Abriel: From score want it bad enough. So the idea is really, yes it is.
Gwenevere Abriel: It is a choice to choice for me it's a choice for everyone. So it's just getting that
Gwenevere Abriel: Down at the bottom of the list, you will have run through all these other things. It won't make sense in your life anymore. It just it'll you'll cross it it'll cross a pass across your mind, you'll go how absurd. It'll just be that. So we'll get there.
Nick Graham: Okay, it doesn't
Gwenevere Abriel: Hopeless. The fact that you have this this skill of remembering numbers that's I think when people say, you know, you're always going to be in recovery, in a sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's, I think, really all it means the same way with the food. There's always an option to to overdo the always going to be fast food. There's always going to be that there. It's just you're building a life where it doesn't make sense to do with it.
Nick Graham: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're going to start tithing, Nick, you're going to start to make basically probably I'm thinking promises, in a sense.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sydney, you're going to be basically saying, I'm going to be more present I'm holding myself more accountable for not escaping my emotions. I'm going to own and work through them.
Gwenevere Abriel: And not run to drugs. I made dumb decisions. And the same thing with dipping into anger. I'm working on that. And that's a bit of a promise we're not saying, I promise.
Gwenevere Abriel: But it's a promise it's it's setting out this expectation to the to the listener. This is how I'm going to be, you can count on.
Gwenevere Abriel: You can count on this. I'm going to be this. So when I say you're developing a life where it doesn't make sense to us, you're going to have to go, oh my gosh, my relationship might be at stake here. If I go back to that way of living, I might start being an a hoe. Again, I might lose her
Gwenevere Abriel: That's what I'm talking about. I'm saying there's a lot of
Gwenevere Abriel: Your life won't make sense to going back to that life anymore. What if she has a child or something. I mean, it'll just stop making sense to do those things because you'll be so much better.
Gwenevere Abriel: At meeting your life on terms you'll feel those feelings, you will have had success in managing through them.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you'll be like, oh, this is, this one's inconvenient. Oh, this one's hard. What do I need to do I need to. I need to call some people. All right, I need to do some reading. I need some quiet time. I need to spend some time, hiking, you'll do those things.
Gwenevere Abriel: It'll still that we can. We all got that stuff on the list. It's all there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, I know. It would be nice if temptation was never going to be on the horizon. Again, wouldn't it be nice if Suboxone just like a miracle made it all Kobe.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's the mentality of the addict. Anyway, just give me a pill. Make it easy. Sorry. Being humans hard
Just sorry. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's beautiful, too.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I am a little selfishly excited
Gwenevere Abriel: For you with Sydney am selfishly right
Gwenevere Abriel: Because I've been kind of like, I'm kind of tapping my fingers like I wonder, she's kind of come around. I don't know who she is. I'm like, huh,
Gwenevere Abriel: Wonder. She's gonna come around. I don't know. Maybe she's not meant to be, I don't know anything better. And I've been wondering
Nick Graham: Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, she didn't and
Nick Graham: That's good. I like
Nick Graham: I'm not feeling like super excited about a, you know, just because like when she came to me was when I had written her off like and I felt good about for the first time, being able to like face it, like, I don't have this person and so
Nick Graham: You know, like that. It was interesting. The timing that you know kind of worked with that.
Nick Graham: So I don't know. We'll see.
Nick Graham: How it works.
Nick Graham: There's a chance that I'm, I'm, like, heavily preparing for the fact that it won't work. And I'm kind of like, okay, if it doesn't, kind of thing.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right. And those are those are punctuations. But if instead the invitation and I am inviting. It is more your ongoing work is remember how you said its present present. What am I noticing right now. I noticed I DON'T BELIEVE HER SOMETHING LIKE THAT. MY something I'm being present.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what city.
Gwenevere Abriel: Something about what you just said, I'm having a hard time kind of trusting right now not saying you have to do anything to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Will it work out won't work out. No, that's not where the energy goes, it goes, I'm going to continue to pay attention to how I feel. Pay attention to my intuition on name it. I'll talk about it. I will continue to be authentic in the moment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Marriage is just yes it's legal, but it's a piece of paper.
Gwenevere Abriel: Your commitment to yourself not abandoning yourself is key.
Gwenevere Abriel: You felt a lot of work on that. So hold on tight. Okay, it's gonna make you more confident and and and probably making decisions in the moment when you're around her that you don't end up regretting because you went slow
Gwenevere Abriel: And you really were intentional and just sort of sat with I need a little more time to think about this. I got to spend some time thinking about this. My automatic thought is this
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to take some time. If it's just back at the moment. How do I feel right now. What do I need what what's going on for me right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not making a decision will this marriage work well this marriage work if you're enjoying paying attention to you. Let's keep doing it.
Nick Graham: That's it's a better way to look at it probably
Nick Graham: Looking at the final answer. What you don't know or can't control.
Nick Graham: Yes, that's like, I guess.
Nick Graham: A good
Nick Graham: Really state of mind to always take like
Nick Graham: Living in the moment, kind of
Nick Graham: It is without using that an excuse to make bad decisions. I think people use that as an excuse to make a bad decision, but
Nick Graham: Yeah, that's been a hard thing. I don't know, like I through life of lately. I haven't felt like bad, which is good. Like, I haven't felt suicidal. I haven't felt extreme emotions, but I haven't really felt like like overwhelmingly good either. And I don't know, like
Nick Graham: When that comes
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Layer that's problematic on that is
Gwenevere Abriel: As if as a problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: So just just just witness it.
Nick Graham: Is
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't know whether it's you're going to end up pushing out to make sure that you have those intense for some people. That's where the substance use was too is, I want this intensity
Gwenevere Abriel: What if
Gwenevere Abriel: Just giving you time for the low vibration that sort of like go walking in the mountains and just like maybe maybe the polarity of intense
Gwenevere Abriel: High right and this and all the way down. Maybe that's familiar to you, but sort of this is what finding out what feelings are all about in sobriety, or just seeing. Can I be with just
Gwenevere Abriel: And just sort of in the middle, not too high, not too low. I'll look at me, I'm making meaning out of it. I caught myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: Does this mean I'm depressed. Is this going to be my lifeline never have that passion and excitement you catch it. You're making meaning out of this middle ground.
Gwenevere Abriel: You just you, you look at it, you label it and you detach, maybe it's hey I'm, I'm still on the Suboxone i don't know maybe it's doubling the
Gwenevere Abriel: The, the experience of the serotonin needs because it does, it inhibits the serotonin. So maybe when I'm off of that that will come up as well. I'm just going to pay attention to it I noticing. It's not there.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's some pros. There's some cons. I'm not doing these really big.
Gwenevere Abriel: gestures of drug use and acting out. I'm just kind of see, you check yourself you check the meaning you're making out of I'm not really too too happy either
Gwenevere Abriel: Just look at it. All right, maybe let's let me see. I want to help on that, unless I wonder if today. And that's all you just watch over and over. You do that all day long. You just witness compassionate.
Gwenevere Abriel: Witness just huh good that and I'll keep talking to going to hear about it. Look, it's again here today, I noticed today. I felt really dull.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh yeah, stinking thinking came in it that I must be making some negative meaning like this is going to be this way forever. Oh, I kept pastor five. That's a very common.
Gwenevere Abriel: Thought that people do. It's awful. It's so awful. Look. Look how do I feel now instead of that gently just well look at what my brain is doing over and over, like you said, this is the way a whole way living every day.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you said, I want to be more present. This is what it looks like. We don't land judgment and then act.
Gwenevere Abriel: Out from it. We sit, we look at the label, we say is that all there is. We look content context, we say, well, I'm in this. I'm still on the subs and wonder if there's something to do with it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe it has something to do with a lifetime of doing this and this and I'll keep talking. Whenever you're about it. I'll do some journaling. Let me do something that also maybe gives me a little bit more joy and go do those things.
Nick Graham: Yeah, yeah. I think it's probably that i don't know i don't know like
Nick Graham: If there's a certain time that it takes like there's a brain heal after things like this was did this to do that opiate opioids like damage to the brain, like what is it like the physiological kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: Question. You did mess with it. I'm not going to say forever. You didn't. It's, I can't say I I'm not in the brain of yours, but what I have heard from people in this program. I'm going to be three years here.
Gwenevere Abriel: In June.
Gwenevere Abriel: The ones that are down 2.75 and I've been on that for a while, are like I got my brain back
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, my it's I'm not fuzzy and they have access to happy they have access to it. You know how you say it's kind of like, where is that feeling.
Gwenevere Abriel: So I, I think it will come back online but yeah you mess with it, you gave it this when natural organic right oh opioid
Gwenevere Abriel: Receptor response. The good dopa mean the natural adult mean occurring chemical reaction is this, and you did this to it. See a mess with it you mess with the expectation. It's like dharma.
Gwenevere Abriel: Dharma dharma. Dharma. You want to throw the Dumb Dumb and Dumber. Gimme gimme gimme gimme a mess with it. So we need to get back to homeostasis right here so that that sunset that walk with the puppy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, that those things can feel delicious again. So just be patient.
Nick Graham: Because they used to, you know, and that that's like what's like I feel it kind of depressing. Like sometimes like trapped in a hole because I'm like, I remember times when I was like
Nick Graham: smile at this sunset or like pass by someone in like feel a genuine like beautiful like human connection and be like happy about it. Now I'm just like,
Nick Graham: Like I see it, but I don't feel you know this stuff so
Nick Graham: I presume that that will be something that, you know, like, like the last time I got clean it came in time. And then I was feeling that kind of stuff. Again, while
Gwenevere Abriel: So I want to offer reassurance. I do believe it will come back. I'm not God's will. I will. I can't talk like that.
Nick Graham: Yeah. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: I love my what I've seen you just right. Now remember, okay. Just remember, yes. I used to feel this. I can't get it back. And I think you will
Gwenevere Abriel: But it does require tapering which means you're going to have on that edge of on both scared and I want happy feelings back. I'm scared. You're going to be living that edge. So are you taking. Are you doing the best you can with 5.5 and for how many days. Have you been doing it.
Nick Graham: Yeah.
Nick Graham: I think I mean, yeah, I've been. I've been at that for who probably a little while but I could probably get down to five.
Gwenevere Abriel: Little scared right
Nick Graham: Yeah, I mean a little bit like I think that'd be comfortable where I was even thinking like
Nick Graham: I could probably
Nick Graham: We think I could probably good for kids just like easier to
Gwenevere Abriel: But that's too far.
You
Gwenevere Abriel: Know, do more than don't don't don't do more than one milligram out of time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, start then you'll have an excuse. Look, I mean withdrawal papers for the birds. I can't do this.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then we'll have
Gwenevere Abriel: Really bad experience, but I'd rather it be
Gwenevere Abriel: I know you're doing that the tablet thing. Right. Um, what would be an easy would five or four and a half be easier.
Nick Graham: easier because there's two milligram pills and so I could do
Nick Graham: Yeah, I think five would be easy.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, and I can't remember when you said you were going to go in
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh wait, Nicholas march 3 that's you tomorrow. Right.
Nick Graham: Yes. Yeah, but everything tomorrow and
Nick Graham: If they let me pass through. So yeah, insurance things again and now this thing. I have a $4,000 deductible some weird things like that so
Gwenevere Abriel: You need to get this is this is hard for a lot of people getting in there. This is enough stuff at least get your information go give them a call the person at bright heart, I think, so far, that's been really effective is
Gwenevere Abriel: Krista bending she's
Nick Graham: Yeah, Krista. Krista told me that as well. So it seems as crystal look into it and my plans are not compatible. So I guess I need to call Cigna my insurance and tell them
Nick Graham: Like hey
Nick Graham: Can you make this work kind of
Gwenevere Abriel: And I can't remember if they said it's because it's telemedicine Telehealth.
Nick Graham: Yeah, like it's not it. Yeah, exactly. It's
It is
Gwenevere Abriel: I gotta tell you, if it's not today. It'll be soon. And you're not the only one. My signal. It's been having a hard time. I mean, you can go on the website and see all the insurance companies that are
Gwenevere Abriel: That are providing this what's called like a parody niche, which means if you're going to provide services that are commensurate to another, you need to reimburse at the same. It's this Parity Act. So
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, do let me let me hear how is it different, because people are benefiting from it. This this company this company this company. This is the service.
Gwenevere Abriel: I want to use. I don't have access to one, it's easier when there's nobody around because you can say, well there. I don't have access anywhere else. You know, you can say, I'm in a remote area and I have to sell a health. That's a great argument.
Gwenevere Abriel: But honestly, they're going to end up. If it's not today. It's going to be soon where they're going to have to because there's this is all over the place and it seems to be working just as well as you know brick and mortar. So they're going to come around eventually
Gwenevere Abriel: And just cash. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: I would be really surprised if there's not someone in that office someone a supervisor or someone who's not looking at that right now saying
Nick Graham: Yeah, you can reimburse and reimburse for
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe it's just a matter of our billing being able to send a particular document in if it's a note or something, I don't know. But my concern is that it might be so scary for you that you might not want to give them a call.
Nick Graham: Yeah. Well, it's kind of been a
Nick Graham: Yeah, like I could I could I could give them a card. I'm trying to think, what's been blocking me from doing that, like,
Nick Graham: Just
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a lot of money.
Nick Graham: Yeah yeah yeah like I guess I don't really want to hear the final result. I don't know cuz I'm close to, I think I'm at my limit with with bright heart and they might not. Let me through again.
Nick Graham: My dad who told me he was going to pay monthly make $200 a month until me he like just withdrew that some reason.
You
Nick Graham: Know, even like he helped me as my my dog adoption fee and then he was like, so I pay for that. And then that's all I can do for a while and it's like
Nick Graham: Okay.
Nick Graham: I should probably have a further discussion.
Gwenevere Abriel: So notice
Gwenevere Abriel: It might be a little bit of that old habit of not directly asking people questions there might be a little bit that still going on. That's pretty common. It's hard to ask
Questions, um,
Nick Graham: He's given me so much money. It's like, like for different things. You know, like
Nick Graham: It's hard. It's hard to like
Nick Graham: To do that, because he's given me like a lot. I mean, stay for a lot of coverage. He's, he's
Nick Graham: Paid for my rent when I needed help. He's like,
Nick Graham: He's got a lot of money. You know, I mean this mean I'm entitled
Nick Graham: To me to
Nick Graham: Ask that but he's been so helpful I think
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm gonna go run a group, but I, that might be a place for us to explore next time. But notice
Nick Graham: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, well the next times if we can't get this figured out and let me also say this, they, they will work out some sort of, Hey, well if you pay such and such payment.
Gwenevere Abriel: They'll work with you as long as you're sort of on board with with study bringing stuff in. So just just talk with them. The worst thing that's going to happen is
Gwenevere Abriel: You have this $4,000 deductible. Okay, I'm going to have to really see I'm going to have to put my money.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right in there. Am I going to follow through with with the homework. Well, I better. This actually is coming out of my pocket. This is a pain in the butt. Listen, we value what we pay for. I'm sorry we do, you're going to write up like I'm going to do it. Talk on it. I'm paying for this stuff.
You're going to see
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay well i i really want to keep working with you. I sure hope we can figure something out. If anything, I want to work with both of you. I wanted you know
Gwenevere Abriel: So try to remove any kind of shame layer that's attached to it. Okay, and get into accountability, responsibility, you're going to feel good. I'm taking action. I'm not
Gwenevere Abriel: Making decisions out of fear and scarcity and get into ask the hard questions and be able to tolerate their responses that's that's that's big boy pants stuff right there for sure that's not i'm not easy. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah but but I don't want to act like this is an important. I feel like this is something we may want to talk about in a future session because a lot might be coming up for you.
Nick Graham: Yeah, for sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: What do you want to do you want me to, sort of, wait, and holding you let me know when you want to meet or what what do you suggest
Nick Graham: I would think like
Nick Graham: To do that group, which is like more money tomorrow. Probably the week from whatever, like, a week from today.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: Eat, eat on
Gwenevere Abriel: March 10. Is that too soon.
Nick Graham: Now, I think it's fine. Okay, you have a 777 days a week.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, actually I didn't I unless she she's been one. Oh, I got some been a month march 13 yet. That's a Friday.
Nick Graham: Yeah.
Nick Graham: I'll be
Nick Graham: Let's do. Let's do it. Let's do eight on that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yep.
Nick Graham: And if I have to change it. I will change it.
Nick Graham: Change it.
Gwenevere Abriel: Will find out probably Sunday night I'll check with you on the eighth. Oh yeah, that's beautiful well be good to you and deep breath.
Gwenevere Abriel: don't overanalyze it all we have to do is ask the questions.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're a good person just because this we are we have crappy insurance, you are not alone. A lot of us do.
Gwenevere Abriel: No reflection on your value. Truly, I promise.
Nick Graham: Very careful
Gwenevere Abriel: With you, man. Let's not even go there.